heat stroke it's when the body loses its
ability to cool itself and the body's
core temperature becomes dangerously
high for some it can kill within 30
minutes so it's vital that you know how
to recognize the symptoms and take
action every year in the UK there are
about 2,000 heat related deaths but in a
heatwave there can be hundreds more the
risk is also greater in hot climates and
for those doing strenuous exercise in
high temperatures but there are some
clear warning signs to look out for
first you might spot symptoms of heat
exhaustion
these can include heavy sweating rapid
breathing nausea a fast weak pulse
lightheadedness and a feeling of fatigue
you might also experience cramp in your
muscles if you spot any of these signs
in yourself or another person
particularly on a hot day it's important
to call the body down as quickly as
possible one of the key ways that our
bodies keep the temperature down is by
sweating but it's essential that you
allow that sweat to evaporate so if you
see someone suffering from heat
exhaustion you can help them by removing
any unnecessary clothing and exposing as
much skin as possible and I'm going to
show this group of runners some other
simple steps you can take
you should seek shade and drink plenty
of fluids planning the skin while its
moist will also help just going to
sprinkle you a little bit of water just
onto your skin you should also use
whatever you have available to cool the
skin ice or cold packs are especially
good what you squeeze it together
already cold in areas where there are
major blood vessels such as the back of
the neck or the armpits will help cool
you down quickly how are you feeling
here is it cool you down still one
useful tip is to put your hands in cold
water this is amongst the fastest ways
to cool the whole body when you're hot
heat exhaustion itself isn't
life-threatening but it is the precursor
to heatstroke people who succumb to
heatstroke will generally look unwell
they might have difficulty in breathing
and other major warning symptoms
these can include convulsions
unconsciousness hot dry skin and very
heavy sweating that suddenly stops this
is a sign that the body is so dehydrated
it can no longer produce sweat to cool
itself down people with heatstroke will
probably be irritable and confused and
not able to take action for themselves
so if you're with a group make sure
you're looking after each other if the
person is unconscious put them in the
recovery position and if they have a
seizure move nearby objects out of the
way to prevent injury and if you notice
any of these symptoms you should call
999 as soon as possible
quick action really can save a life
you